# add settings.py middleware
1. MIDDLEWARE variable in settings.py add `'tutorial.middleware.LoginRequiredMiddleware'`  where tutorial is dir name and    
middleware is python file name.  because it i have created custom login middleware.  
# from django.conf import settings  
1. import settings in middleware python module.  

# 'LoginRequiredMiddleware' object is not callable   
1. This error show when user is not created this two function in user defined class.   
2. This __init__ method is called when an object is created from a class and it allows the class to initialize the attributes of   
the class. 
3. The __call__ method enables Python programmers to write classes where the instances behave like functions and can be   
called like a function.  
``` 
Example 
    def __init__(self, get_response):
        self.get_response = get_response

    def __call__(self, request):
        response = self.get_response(request)
        return response
```
# No need @login_required decorator.  hit (AnonymousUser)  
1.  `@login_required` decorator is more difficult to use for writing every function.  
2. Then use custom login middleware.  
# login redirect define  (hit change setting  LOGIN_URL = '/accounts/login/' )  
1. The logic is defined that if user is not authenticate then by default it move login page.  

# Allow to access some url (hit LOGIN_EXEMPT_URLS = ( r'^accounts/register/$', r'^accounts/logout/$' ))    
1. This is exceptional case where un-authenticated user is open the page.   
 
# process_view()  
1. process_view(request, view_func, view_args, view_kwargs)¶
2. `request` is an HttpRequest object.   
3. `view_func` is the Python function that Django is about to use. (It’s the actual function object, not the name of the  
 function as a string.)  
4. `view_args` is a list of positional arguments that will be passed to the view.    
5.  `view_kwargs` is a dictionary of keyword arguments that will be passed to the view. 
6. Neither view_args nor view_kwargs include the first view argument (request).  

# what is the use of process_view() 
1. process_view() is called just before Django calls the view.  
2. It should return either None or an HttpResponse object.
3. If it returns None, Django will continue processing this request, executing any other process_view() middleware and,   
then, the appropriate view.   
4. If it returns an HttpResponse object, Django won’t bother calling the appropriate view; it’ll apply response middleware  
to that HttpResponse and return the result.  

Note

Accessing request.POST inside middleware before the view runs or in process_view() will prevent any view running after   
the middleware from being able to modify the upload handlers for the request, and should normally be avoided.

The CsrfViewMiddleware class can be considered an exception, as it provides the csrf_exempt() and csrf_protect() decorators  
 which allow views to explicitly control at what point the CSRF validation should occur.  
 login 
``` 
    def process_view(self, request, view_func, view_args, view_kwargs):
        assert  hasattr(request, 'user')
        path = request.path_info.lstrip('/')

        if not request.user.is_authenticated(): if user is not authenticated
            if not any(url.match(path) for url in EXEMPT_URLS ): if url is not exist EXEMPT_URLS 
               return redirect(settings.LOGIN_URL)                 go to hard code url
``` 

# How to avoid head code url hit ( settings.py LOGIN_URL = '/accounts/login/') `reverse` function 
1. `urls.py ` give the name of url which is help to access the url.  
2. use reverse function in `middleware.py` `from django.urls import reverse`  
``` 
Example 
urls.py 
    url(r'^logout/',logout, {'template_name': 'accounts/logout.html'}, name='logout'),
middleware.py 
        if path == reverse('logout').lstrip('/'):
            return logout('logout')  

``