# Django template language 

Django template language : 
1. Templates are the third and most important part of Django’s MVT Structure.  
2. A template in Django is basically written in HTML, CSS and Javascript etc.   
3. Django mainly functions with a backend so, in order to provide frontend and provide a layout to our website, we use templates.   
4. There are two methods of adding the template to our website depending on our needs.  
    a. Create a single template directory which will be spread over the entire project for simplicity  
    b. App-level templates are generally used in big projects or in case we want to provide a different layout to each component of our webpage.  
# How to pass variable data from view to html.  
1. Variables look like this **{{ variable_name }}**.  
2. To pass the dictionary object in view and it can be access by kay of dictionary.  
# How to  pass list and access using loop  
1. List is pass in the form of dictionary object.  
2. Access the value of using loop.  
``` 
{{% for number in numbers %}} 

    {{ number }} 

{% endfor %}   
```  
3.Use if else in template.  
``` 
{{% if number > 10 %}} 
   
    {{ number }} 
   
{{% endif%}}
```  
**NOTE** while loop is not use in django template because You can't increment variables in the Django template language.  
That way the alternate is use for loop.    

# How to apply filters on variable using pipe **|**   
1. It is use to modify variables for display by using filters.
2. **{{ name|lower }}** variable name is converts text to lowercase.  
3. **{{ value|length }}** find the length of variable. 
4. If a variable is false or empty, use given default. Otherwise, use the value of the variable. For example:  
**{{ value|default:"nothing" }}**  If value isn’t provided or is empty, the above will display “nothing”.  
# How to use comment in template.    
1. To comment-out part of a line in a template, use the comment syntax: **{# #}**.    
example {# This is comments #}.  
# Template inheritance  
1. extends the parent html page to child template using syntax **{% extends 'parent_html_file_name.html''%}**.  
2. The child is override the **{% block block_name %}** for parent html.  
3. To access parent  **{% block block_name %}** use **{{ block.super }}**
